the second exercise and the Promax
foundations manual covers how to model a
simple sour water stripper the first
thing to do when starting the model is
to specify the environment to remind
myself which environment to use I can
right click in the property package area
of the screen it says here that force
our water strippers I should use the
electrolytic ELR property package I can
choose either SRK who are paying
robinson to perform the vapor phase
calculations for this example I'll
choose pink Robinson I then should go to
the components tab and set the desired
components for the project in this case
ammonia h2 us phenol HCN and water
once you've selected these components
select apply and okay
the feed conditions are given as 95
degrees Fahrenheit
0.3 psig
in 545 standard gallons per minute
the feed composition is given as 0.55
mass percent ammonia
one point two percentage to us 0.1%
phenol 0.001 percent HCN and ninety
eight point one four nine percent water
you
on the pump
the discharge pressure is a property of
the outlet stream so I'll set that in
the outlet
this then enters a heat exchanger and
we're told that the outlet that is
feeding the stripper is 190 degrees
Fahrenheit setting this still leaves us
with a degree of freedom I could set
many things but the most appropriate
value to set is the heat exchanger
pressure drop
while I'm in the exchanger I will set
both pressure drops since this is a
two-sided exchanger I'll choose to make
them both 5 psi
double-clicking on the column will now
allow me to start setting the column
configuration we're told that the column
has seven ideal stages this is the
number of stages that Promax should show
since Promax works on an ideal stage
basis this is already set up but can be
modified if we're required on the
connection step right clicking on a
displayed tray will provide the options
to add or remove stages on the process
data tab I can verify that this is an
equilibrium column type and can attach
the condenser to the column from down
here
the stage data tab then allows me to set
the operating pressure of the column
we're given that the top stage is 8 psi
G and that the column has a 1 PSI
pressure drop
the next tab provides a place for column
specifications we're given that the
condenser temperature is 185 degrees
Fahrenheit we will add a new
specification to the tower here but
notice that there's not a specification
type titled temperature instead we must
select phase property since the
temperature is a property of a phase of
a part of the column once I select this
I can rename it condenser temperature
then select condenser total phase and
temperature
give it the target value of 185 degrees
leave the tolerance spots blank select
active and okay
close they call them dialog box and
let's take a look at the thermos -
reboiler we're given that 70% of the
bottoms are returned to the column so we
can set this split directly
we're also given that 15% of what is
returned is vaporized I can set this
directly and outlet of the reboiler
as with all heat exchangers I should set
a pressure drop I'll again use five psi
for this finally I'm also given that the
air cooler cool it's a string to 110
degrees
I'll give the exchanger a five-pound
pressure drop and then set the outlet
stream at 110 degrees
if you attempt to execute the column and
it then requests a pump around duty
estimate this is added as a
specification in the column
we'll go to the specifications tab
select add and choose pump around
estimate the warning tells us which
stream exiting the tower and in this
case should say it's a pump around duty
estimate so we should select pump around
duty from the drop-down list
I'll give this an estimate of 5 million
BTUs per hour and click active to have
it used the estimate
re-executing the column should give us a
green solution
you
the last part requests us to insert a
property table to display the
temperatures pressures flow rates and
compositions of a few streams first drag
out a property table now double-click on
the table so we can set which values we
would like to appear in it from the top
left select grid columns from here
select P streams next add the sour water
stream the stripper water stream and the
stripper overhead stream to the right
then from the grid rose selection choose
properties pea streams and then add
temperature pressure and mass flow
collapse this choice here so we can see
the composition option next select by
basis then mass fraction you can add
these one at a time or by adding the
heading mass fraction that will add all
of the subset select ok and then you can
drag the property table to any where you
would like it on the flow sheet
the next tutorial will cover how to find
the answers to the questions from the
Foundation's manual